Everpix March 2012 Report
=========================

High Level
----------

* Strong progress on all engineering fronts
* Proof of concept of Everpix iPad app
* No PR at all this month and few new users, so no distractions related to infrastructure maintenance at last, but but still 4 millions new photos imported

New Back End
------------

Significant amount of work is going there but nothing new to report yet, except for our decision to use JPEG 2000 as a transcoding format to store full resolution photos instead of JPEG. This provides significant space saving while maintaining perceptual quality. 

New Front End
-------------

The significant update mentioned last month which provides us a robust foundation going forward and much more polished UX overall. It is currently publicly accessible at https://preview.everpix.com and will replace https://www.everpix.com within the next 2 weeks.

iPhone Client
-------------

The 1.0.2 update was released early last month, one month after the initial release. It addresses various stability issues and some UX problems related to syncing the camera roll. 75% of users who downloaded the previous version updated to it - the others presumably didn’t keep the app on their phone.

Work on version 1.1, whose goal is to add the key missing features compared to the website, will start this month.

iPad Client
-----------

During the last few weeks, we have also put together a proof of concept of an Everpix iPad client. It showcases beautiful hi-res thumbnails (especially on the new iPad), a very smooth navigation experience and super-easy sharing of photos by email.

It’s important to start experimenting early on this platform as the screen size changes significantly the way you interact with photos. We want Everpix to really shine on iPad and there’s a lot of UX research to be done there.

Watch a short video here showing the app in action here (password is “everpixHD”): http://vimeo.com/everpix/review/39744631/39d5813673. Keep in mind several areas in this app are of course mock-ups and absolutely not representative of what a final UI would be.

Windows Uploader
----------------

We have decided on the contractor, an individual from Eastern Europe, and plan to start the work on June 1st (he must give a 1+ month of advanced notice to his current job).

Android Client
--------------

We have a tentative contractor which would go through a trial period at no cost to us, and then we would confirm the full contract depending on the results. Start date would be early May.

Budget Notes
------------

* The $8,250.17 in equipment is for the 2 new laptops and monitors for our 2 new employees.
