Everpix January 2012 Report
===========================

High Level
----------

* We just released the iOS app worldwide on the App Store today:  http://techcrunch.com/2012/02/01/new-everpix-iphone-app-automatically-uploads-your-photos-to-the-cloud/ (be aware that at this point, it is only to be used as a companion app to the website for our testers / early adopters)
* Everpix Alpha was officially shut down today as well
* We have received a follow up investment of 50K from 500 Startups (thanks Dave!)
* We had an (expensive) MySQL consultant from http://www.percona.com/ on site for 2 days last week to help us optimize our databases

Hiring Update
-------------

No progress unfortunately, we keep interviewing but the market is really though: we're too early and too small to be able to hire junior people with high potential and train them, but at the same time, experienced people are playing hard to get (when they don't want to do their own startup).

We are now exploring outsourcing the Android app to Europe and hiring from Europe as well.

Your help is GREATLY appreciated: see the attached job descriptions document and please circulate around your contacts. As your know, we have a clear vision, strong team, solid execution track, and the money to afford great people! We can also pay recruiting bonuses to anyone who gets us a lead which results in a hire.

Budget Notes
------------

* Consultant costs are high this month as they contain both my salary for December 2011 (only billed in January) as well as the cost to do an external 409A valuation for our stock options plan
* Still lawyers fees, but they are expected to become lower and lower since legal work is drying up (also note that we receive bills with a 45 days latency
* Equipment costs: we bought 4 Apple displays and a Mac Mini
* Cloud infrastructure cost: higher than normal as it contains Google App Engine invoices both for November ($2,400) and December ($1,800). Next month will still be high because we were exceptionally running 2 infrastructures in parallel in January: Everpix Alpha and Everpix Beta.

Regarding our burn rate, we are actually trying to save money wherever possible, for instance:

* The 409A valuation was done through a group deal with 500 Startups and we will get a $1,000 refund
* We bought our Apple hardware through a connection at Apple which saved us about $700
* Since we spent so much on lawyers fees, we negotiated a $5,000 refund on our next invoice

Miscellaneous
-------------

* The 409A final report is not available yet, so it will be part of the next update
* As usual, you can find attached the balance sheet, profit and loss and cap table for January 2012.
