Everpix September 2012 Report
=============================

High Level
----------

* No major issue with Everpix 1.0 infrastructure
* Focused on wrapping up 1.1 for our real launch
* Everpix Beta finally shut down

Everpix Beta Shutdown
---------------------

On October 1st, we finally shut down Everpix Beta at beta.everpix.com after sending several reminder emails to our users who hadn’t transfered to Everpix 1.0. All the associated infrastructure and photo data have been terminated - we only backed up the user database and statistics.

Final statistics for user migration from a free beta to a subscription-based 1.0:

* 18,360 total users signed up during Everpix Alpha and Beta
* 11,714 users are considered “active” as they imported at least 1 photo (63.8% of signed-up users)
* 1,859 users migrated to Everpix 1.0 (10.1% of Alpha / Beta signed up users)
* 1,136 migrated users have at least 1 photo imported in Everpix 1.0 (9.70% of Alpha / Beta active users or 61.1% of migrated users)
* 231 migrated users have bought the 25% off special subscription (12.4% of migrated users)

You may notice in the P&L report that September’s infrastructure is abnormally high at 14K instead of the usual 8-9K. This is simply due to having both the beta infrastructure running while ramping up the 1.0 infrastructure.

Everpix 1.0 Early Statistics
----------------------------

Between September 1st and October 1st:

* 17,300 unique visitors to everpix.com (this includes beta website)
* 3,500 user sign-ups (1,640 excluding users from beta)
* 10M photos imported
* 2,000 iPhone / iPad apps downloads combined
* 25,000 photos shared (vast majority through Photo Mail)
* 250 subscriptions sold:
  * About 85% yearly (website sales only) and 15% monthly (half iTunes Store, half website sales)
  * $6,121.88 gross income from website sales (from which our payment processor takes 2.9% + 30¢ per transaction)
  * iTunes Store gross income is currently negligible (< $100 and Apple takes 30%)
* As of October 8th, 14.4% of active users who have created their accounts more than 30 days ago (i.e. have reached the end of their trial period) have purchased a subscription

Regarding subscriptions income and our accounting, be aware that:

* Our payment processor wires funds to our bank account on  a daily basis but with a 1 week delay, so effectively our accounting has a one week delay on subscription purchases
* Sales through iTunes Store are not included in our accounting yet as funds are transferred by Apple only monthly and if above a certain threshold
* Income for yearly subscriptions is recorded on the purchase date and not spread over the following 12 months period

Real Launch Plan
----------------

We are currently focused on wrapping Everpix 1.1, which integrates our very latest image analysis techniques and UX. This tidies up the whole product very nicely and is quite closer to the full Everpix vision. 

What’s at risk at this point is finding the right person to hire to define and lead the user growth / marketing / PR / analytics efforts through the launch. We have been looking for the last 45 days through 100+ resumes from several recruiters and job posts, had a few candidates come onsite. We did extend an offer to a candidate, which didn’t work out at the last minute to a family situation. It’s just very hard to find candidates with the right mix of fully understanding what Everpix is about and relevant prior experience.

To get out of this situation and not block our launch longer than necessary, we are now looking at contractors to temporary fill the position.

Highlight View
--------------

The big new feature in Everpix 1.1 is the “Highlight view” which really shows what Everpix is all about: transforming a large messy photo collection into a beautiful gallery that (re)engages the user and is ready to be shown and shared.

The Highlight view, which works in parallel to the existing Sources and Moments, uses deduplication, assisted curating (from our beta), similar photos concatenation, semantic tagging and dynamic grid layout to achieve its unique result. It’s very exciting as this is our first “intelligent” view on users photo collections that is born from the convergence of a year of work in multiple areas.

Updated iPhone and iPad apps
----------------------------

To expose the new highlight view, we are working on updated iPhone and iPad apps as part of our 1.1 launch. We use this opportunity to achieve 2 extra goals:

* Having a really consistent UX between both platforms
* Through the highlight view, having a usage model for the iPhone app closer to the default iPhone Photos app (i.e. long list of photos), which is what most people are used to, except the Everpix grid is much nicer looking and intelligent

Windows Uploader
----------------

Still on track to launch a public beta version along with our Everpix 1.1 launch.
