Everpix April 2012 Report
=========================

High Level
----------

* New Everpix website launched
* New back end reached a usable state and we started to use it internally
* Great breakthroughs in image analysis
* Full speed on converging for our summer out-of-beta release

Image Analysis Research
-----------------------

We perfected our visual similarity measure (used so far for similar photo detection in assisted curation) into representing with excellent specificity and performance arbitrary image regions.

Our goal is to design a robust platform not only for finding similarities on whole images, but also for any object, texture, or more subjective qualities. By opposition to other image analysis techniques, we are not trying to extract a simplified classifier from thousands images, and then hoping to apply it to millions, but instead allowing fast search of these millions for similar perceptual feature and grab the associated information.

Our first milestone is the replacement of our existing duplicate detection system in the new backend, happening today. We define as duplicate an image which is effectively the same, minus resizing and compression artifact (up to highly destroyed jpegs with 20/100 quality). Our tests so far have shown far better results than the state of the art: 100% duplicate detection in a library with however many photos looking alike.

Our previous duplicate detection system came from a 10 years old paper and open source project, called puzzle, which was not designed for learning strong artifacts or image transformations (such as cropping or exposure changes). It also had false positives for images with different hues (as it was using only black and white information) and very similar images (for instance, screenshots with just a logo change). Our new technique fixes the previous system caveats, and has the added benefits of being completely unified with assisted curation, so is totally in house.

New Back End
------------

Lots of progress and all the pieces are getting together now. There are too many architectural changes and improvements compared to the old back end to list here, but overall the new one gives us a robust foundation to grow on for the next year or so.

Some key differences at the user level:

* Everpix is now import only (i.e. aggregation only):
  * Deleting photos from the original source doesn’t delete anymore from our cloud
  * This simplifies the syncing story quite a bit and consolidates the backup side of Everpix
  * Of course, users can still permanently delete photos from Everpix, but it has to be done from the website and is really designed as a last resort option
* Support for full resolution photos everywhere
* **[REDACTED - New image pipeline overview]**
* We can build arbitrary views on a user’s photo collection: the first one is the time clustering one (aka “moments”) which you already know, but we can now add new ones down the road
* Thumbnails are not pre-rendered at 150 and 300 pixels during import anymore, but are now generated on the fly at arbitrary resolution and quality
* There is support for metadata editing from the clients (e.g. change the EXIF date of a photo), as well as applying basic transforms on photos (rotation for now, but we can add more later like cropping or even effects)

Some other enhancements that indirectly affect the user:

* Improved image analysis algorithm as described above
* Higher-throughput: this means latency should remain more constant independently of the system load (optimistic locking)
* Higher-capacity: we can now use multiple database servers (sharding)
* Unused photos (e.g. duplicates) or explicitly deleted photos and associated data are now really deleted from our system

We are currently setting up a dedicated test environment to which we will start inviting testers later this month. This environment will represent the final Everpix as to be released this summer.  

New Front End
-------------

The new https://www.everpix.com is live since a couple weeks and we are now focusing on adding to it the new features offered by the new back end e.g. high-quality thumbnails, photo rotation, metadata editing...

One important user-level changes compared to the previous version is regarding sharing: it turns out few people were using the “public / private switch” to share moments by URL. We now have instead the concept of “photo pages”, which are fixed set of 1 or more photos accessible by a semi-public URL. Creating them from the UI is as easy as sharing to Facebook, Twitter or Email. Early results show that users have been using photo pages significantly more than the previous system.

iPhone Client
-------------

At work on the 1.1 update, which is targetted to be in the App Store by end of this month. This update will make the app more standalone (e.g. no need to go to www.everpix.com to set up connections to other photo services), improve sharing, clean up the UX and add overall polish.

We plan to do one last pass on the iPhone app before our Everpix’s release this summer to prepare it for the new back end.

iPad Client
-----------

No progress on development, as it will resume after the updated iPhone app has been completed. We are however continuing to explore UX concepts for it.

Considering the lack of great iPad photo apps, the rapid growth of the platform, and simply the fact that this app space is less encumbered than the iPhone one, we are looking at releasing a solid and beautiful 1.0 version, but with a minimal feature set, alongside with our Everpix release this summer.

Windows Uploader
----------------

Contracts have been signed with our contractor from Poland. Work will start on June 1st.

Android Client
--------------

On hold for now, as we currently don’t have the bandwidth.
