Everpix June 2012 Report
========================

High Level
----------

* Heads down on wrapping up Everpix 1.0 for our August 1st deadline!

Back End
--------

Feature work has been mostly completed, so we are now focusing on reliability and testing.

Our projected user costs appears still valid at this stage: our infrastructure cost per average user (assuming 5,000 photos initially) should be less than $0.50 per month, plus a one-time $1.00 import cost of the entire user’s photo collection.

Testing has also shown that Everpix imports photos about 5X faster than our main competitors - a non-negligeable fact when users are expected to move their entire collection to our cloud.

Website
-------

Lots of changes and polish still going in but we are converging. We are also designing the “real” product page to present Everpix.

iPhone Client
-------------

The 1.1 update was released on the App Store and there have been no compatibility issues reported. Out of the total 19,000 installs of the app before this release, there were 11,000 updates, so about 58% of people who have installed the app kept it. According to Flurry Analytics, Everpix iPhone app still has slightly higher than average retention compared to iPhone photography apps.

We are preparing the 1.2 version which runs against the new infrastructure to be submitted to the App Store later this month.

iPad Client
-----------

We’ve made good progress on building the core features and UI for a 1.0 and the app looks quite neat. We plan to submit to the App Store later this month.

Windows Uploader
----------------

Proof of concept built by our contractor as a hybrid C++ / .NET application that uploads photos to our servers.
