Everpix June 2013 Report
========================

High Level
----------

* Product positioning completed and successfully tested with journalists and VCs
* Close to 40 new million full-resolution photos synced and another solid $14K of sales
* Still way above average subscription rates compared to typical freemium products
* BD opportunities ramping up
* We are running out of cash soon

Users and Subscriptions
-----------------------

We passed 30,000 users mid-month and have more than 3,500 subscribers now. The current churn rate of subscribers (defined as "cancels during month / subscribers at start of month") is less than 2% since September 1st when we started charging people.

The proportion of people purchasing a monthly subscription compared to yearly has been increasing since we introduced Everpix Free and it’s now 55% (compared to 25% when Everpix came out of Beta). This is not entirely surprising as we expect a category of people to “test the water” first using a monthly subscription then switch to yearly. We already have a incentivisation program in place to encourage them to switch (email marketing and discount). We also noticed people subscribed to Everpix pretty rapidly: half of monthly subscribers purchase within a day after signing up, while half of yearly subscribers purchase within 3 days.

Everpix is not fundamentally a viral product (it does not have strong social sharing component yet) but the rate of success of invites sent by Everpix users where the recipient decides to sign up is more than 30% since introduced 3 months ago. There is room for growth as we are not very aggressive e.g. we don’t send reminder emails.

We just did a PR push at the very end of June so it’s too early to measure its true effects on user acquisition. Keep in mind since we are building a solution to a new problem, we care more about the medium / long term effects of PR than what happens on peak day.

In the past reports, we mentioned the conversion rate of the landing page of Everpix (defined as invite requests over new visitors) as being too low at ~10%. This assumption was based on data found online about other websites, although not directly in the same consumer space, which indicated we should be able to go to as high as 20-30%. We therefore tried a number of changes on the landing page including quite a bit of A/B testing. The needle didn’t move so either it’s our overall messaging that’s not working, or that’s just as high as it gets for a product in our space. We now think it’s the latter after discussing with more people who have startup and / or established companies experience.

A similar focus of ours was trying to increase the ratio of the people signing up and importing at least 1 photo since it has always been oscillating around 75-80%. This means we “lose” 20% of our users who are unlikely to ever use the product. Here as well we tried over the last few months a number of experiments from changing significantly the out-of-box experience and sending more aggressive email reminders. The needle didn’t move either on this key metric. However, we also recently learned here that having 80% of signups complete the key action of importing at least 1 photo is actually really high.

Paid Customer Acquisition
-------------------------

We hired a very experienced for a couple weeks to define a strategy to test paid user acquisition and execute it through a number of ad campaigns. We spent $11,500 online ads over 13 days on Google Search and Google Display Network.

The overall findings are:

* Cost to acquire a free sign-up from optimized first round tests is ~$10 (with room for improvement through ongoing development & optimization)
  * Search was the top performing campaign accounting for 61% of sign-ups at a $10.27 cost/sign-up
  * GDN – Text has good potential at <$10/sign-up when fully optimized and lots of volume available
* Large volume of targeted, affordable photo-related inventory available
* Although there is lots of interest in the service in terms of sign-ups, conversion from sign-up to paid is about quite lower for paid traffic (1.3%) vs. organic traffic (6.5%) and needs to be optimized across multiple points in order to make paid acquisition efficient
  * What this means in practice is we would need to ensure the product messaging on the landing page and out-of-box experience for users coming from an ad match the actual ad messaging, which wasn’t the case during these limited tests

Assuming a gross revenue of $49 / subscribed user and a 2% monthly churn rate (see above), the LTV of a subscribed user would be around $170 so the math doesn’t work out in our favor yet. We would need to drive down the cost to acquire and increase the subscription conversion for these users.

New Product Positioning
-----------------------

The work with Julie Supan from consumer insight research, user surveys, product positioning and overall messaging has been completed. We are now positioning Everpix as such:

*Everpix solves the Photo Mess.*

or more specifically:

*We are building the consumer photo platform to effortlessly get people’s life photo collection into shape and automatically surface what inspires them.*

See the Press Slides document to get a sense of how this positioning comes together for the press. We also used an early version of it during our VC tour. The messaging resonated very well: almost everyone we met said they had the Photo Mess problem. It's one of these things where if you put the right word on a problem it becomes immediately visible. You can see the effect in the coverage of our 2nd press tour: the resulting articles are less of a feature list of Everpix but more of a high-level positioning and explanation of what it can do for the reader. Also note several journalists said in their article they were using the product to help them with their Photo Mess.

We have still some work to do bring all our product copy up-to-date with the new positioning and this will be done in phases in the coming weeks.

Everpix 2.0 Launch
------------------

At this end of the month, we launched Everpix 2.0, the next iteration of our photo platform, with a big focus on UX. Everpix’s interface at a high-level has been significantly simplified to be more approachable to less experienced users and to really make it clear how Everpix solves the Photo Mess:

* My Photos view: all your photos organized in a dynamic & fluid UX that embraces the firehose of photos in people’s lives
* Flashback: rediscover your photos in a leisure way

The full press release is available here: http://press.everpix.com/post/54017003154/everpix-unveils-2-0-to-solve-the-photo-mess-and

The resulting press coverage is listed here: https://angel.co/everpix/press

Infrastructure
--------------

We now have almost 200M full-resolution photos in Everpix (in total we processed more than 230M taking into account the former Everpix Trial). We have been no real problems with our infrastructure in the past couple months and it handled the load from our 2nd press tour very well. Our infrastructure related variable costs are under control at this point - although there is still room for a lot of optimizations we are aware of to drive costs even further.

BD Opportunities
----------------

There has been increasing interest in our unique photo platform by big companies (we had people coming to visit us from **[REDACTED]** for instance) as well as a number of startups. Big companies are starting to realize cloud storage is becoming a commodity and they need to offer a real added value to their users and are looking for differentiators.

We are about to sign in the coming days our first BD deal, with Mixbook (http://www.mixbook.com/about-mixbook), a successful and profitable photo printing startup based in Palo Alto. They have a popular and very profitable iOS app called Mosaic (continuously in the top photo apps) which lets people order high-quality photo books of 20 pages with a great user experience. Mixbook likes our app a lot and sees it as a great opportunity to solve a pain point of their Mosaic users: they can only order books with the photos in their camera roll, while with Everpix they would have access to their life photo collection.

We are building updated version of the Everpix and Mosaic apps that have seamless integration together intended for submission to the App Store mid-July. Once released, Mixbook will actively promote Everpix to **[REDACTED]** segmented users by direct email. We are talking about high-quality leads as these are only users who have ordered uploaded photos and ordered books. If the cooperation works well, there is plenty of room for growth as Mixbook has a user base of more than **[REDACTED]** - we will likely hit the limits of our infrastructure before that.

Endgame
-------

We are still waiting on the remaining results on our VC tour, but at this point there’s a good chance we won’t be able to raise our Series A. The bar is especially high in the consumer photo space, even more so for top VCs, the ones we met with, as we need to demonstrate there’s the potential to build $100M / year revenue company and not just a profitable medium-size one. The feedback from VC has overall been excellent on the team, execution & vision: they almost all say we have a very good product and solving a real mass-market problem (we’ve been told several times we have the best solution today). But there is a lot of competition, noise, and head winds in the consumer photo space, so they want to see more assurance we can get to these millions and millions of users.

Since we don’t expect current investors to re-invest, our current projection is that we are going to run out of money on September 1st. The options for Everpix are therefore:

1. Series A (unlikely)
2. Product & team acquisition (on-going discussions)
3. Acqu-hire of just the team (on-going discussions)
4. Nothing i.e. a plain shutdown (unlikely)

In the current Silicon Valley market and very high-demand for experienced teams, it’s more than likely investors would get some if not all of their money back and we can assure that if it comes to selling, we will do our best to execute the best possible deal for everyone involved.
