Everpix March 2013 Report
=========================

High Level
----------

* Great across the board PR coverage
* Best photo month so far with close to 50 new million full-resolution photos synced
* Best revenue month so far with $30,000+ in total sales
* VP-level marketing exec joining us for the next 3 months

Introducing Everpix Free
------------------------

Since our 1.0 launch back in September 2012, Everpix had been using a pure subscription model: try it for free for 30 day, then subscribe or your photos are deleted. It’s a great way to ensure you have a solid baseline product as people must pay to use it in a world of often free online photo services. This was validated on a 10,000+ user base by really high conversion rates in the range of 15 - 40% depending on how far people experienced the product.

However, a subscription only model is also “confrontational” with users and will discourage a number of people to sign up. Now that we had a more scalable infrastructure, a better understanding of how people use Everpix and we were about to spend quite a bit of money on PR, we decided it was the right time to “go freemium”.

As of March 5th, the 30 day trial has been removed entirely and new users start on Everpix Free. Everpix being a very unique product we don’t think offering a free tier defined as 1,000 photos or say 1 GB would fit. Instead Everpix Free lets you have all your photos from the past 12 months always for free in the full-featured Everpix platform. If you complete certain actions like connecting the Mac or Windows Uploader (a big factor in what seems to drive subscriptions) or inviting friends, you get extra months all the way up to 2 years total.

The time limit concept of Everpix Free is quite interesting as we can experiment with many ways to motivate users to subscribe. For instance when reaching the end of the time limit, we can partially unveil in the user interface photos that would appear when subscribing. Another example would be to offer the user a printed book of the best photos at the end of the year combined with a subscription. It will take some time to build the full Everpix Free experience and figure out what are the best motivational factors to subscribe, but have several pieces already in place.

Subscription Price Change
-------------------------

As part of the Everpix Free launch, we also raised the yearly subscription price from $40 to $49 (monthly subscription remains unchanged at $4.99). This was done for psychological reasons as $49 is a proven key price point (like $24.99, $99, etc...) while $40 is not (several experienced people pointed this to us). We don’t expect the increase in pricing to really affect the subscription rates based on the results of the price-elasticity tests conducted months ago. Of course, the extra $9 income is also welcomed!

Press Coverage
--------------

We did a major PR push on a national level with our agency Allison Partners along with West Coast and East Coast press tours. The primary news was Explore View and Everpix Free. The feedback from journalists during demo was genuinely good and Everpix received great coverage from a wide variety of publications from science (MIT Technology Review), famous gadget blocs (Gizmodo), to photography sites, etc... You can see the full list on our Angel List page: https://angel.co/everpix/press.

The contract with Allison Partners was initially for 3 months and considering the great results, we decided to renew it for another 3 months (meaning until June included). After that we might have to stop as this is pretty expensive (they are a national multi-offices agency after all). Their goal by end of June is to get us lifestyle / mass market type of coverage.

Users and Subscriptions
-----------------------

The PR coverage had a good effect on signups as we just passed 18,000 signups and 2,500 subscribers. As part of the launch of Everpix Free, we also offered a $9 off coupon, valid only for a few days, to any user who signed up before the announcement so they could get the old yearly subscription price. Although not a huge discount, this coupon had a great conversion rate. We see that as a proof that if we “nudge” people the right way, we can get them to subscribe at a high rate.

With Everpix Free, we expect the overall signup-to-subscription conversion rate to go down compared to the former Everpix trial as we are both reaching a broader user base and offering a free tier. It’s only been one month since the launch of Everpix Free, so too early to extract general trends, but so far the conversion rate is still 10% across the board, 20% for users syncing 1,000+ photos and 40% for users syncing 10,000+ photos.

However, we still have an important problem on our landing / product web page where the new-visitor-to-signup ratio might be 2X to 3X lower than a few comparison metrics we found (it seems it can go as high as 25 to 30% but it’s really hard to get public data on this). We are now running significant A/B testing on this page but it’s too early to look at results.

Infrastructure Costs
--------------------

We had yet another quite high AWS infrastructure bill this month of $24,000 (with $20,000 of directly related to production environment costs), mostly due this time to all the new users.

The good news is that it’s not growing as fast as the increase of new users, and we finally got around to implement some of the cost-saving features we had in mind for some time. The first savings are expected to be visible this April.

End of Runway, Postponing Series A and Short Term Plan
------------------------------------------------------

We still expect to run out of cash mid-May so really soon now. We are currently finalizing a term sheet for a $1M convertible note lead by Index Ventures. It’s intended to be a short term note to convert at Series A in the coming months. Specifically, the key goals are to give us extra runway for up to 8 months, put the company in a position to do a great Series A or a great acquisition, but also hire 1 or 2 extra people on the team.

Now to get to a great Series A (or a great acquisition), we need to fix a core problem. Clearly, with Everpix we have proven we have what it takes in science, technology and design to build what a photo platform for the next 10 years should be. Although not a gigantic user base in today’s standards, we do have 20,000 signups and people who use the product get it: we have high subscription rates and really good user reviews (see App Store for instance). Nonetheless a major component of successful companies is nailing the product fit, the target market and marketing strategy. That’s where we are weak today as seen in multiple areas from PR having good short-term effect but not really picking up, to our product page low signup rate, and most importantly to not being able to prove to top VCs we are addressing a very large and mass market problem.

Our plan is to fix this problem fast and with the best possible help we can get. Julie Supan, who has been a VP-level marketing executive at Dropbox, Airbnb, Weebly and a number of known startups in the valley (see http://www.linkedin.com/in/juliesupan for her full profile) will start working with us on April 10th and until the end of June. She has been following Everpix for some time, loves both the product and the team, thinks we have what it takes to make it big and she can help with our product fit / target market problem as that’s her specialty. Julie doesn’t normally work on short-term projects, even less with pre-Series A companies, but she’s making an exception for us. We’ll have more to share on the results of this work in the next couple months.
